1. 404 not found, each status code is broken up into categories of numbers and meanings: 1xx is informational, 2xx is success, 3xx redirection, 4xx is client error (404 is part of this, meaning not found), 5xx is server error, and then there are a few unofficial codes. 

2. GET requests data for a specified resource. POST submits data to be processed to a specified resource. You might want to use a POST request when you don't want restrictions on data length. For GET requests the maximum URL length is 2048 characters, and the get method adds the data to the URL, so you are limited on the length of data. There are also no restriction on data type for POST requests, whereas GET requests only allow ASCII characters. POST is more secure than GET because the parameters are not stored in browser history or in web server logs. This would be important for authentication or password entries. POST does not store data, so if you use the back or reload button whatever data was entered will not be stored. This is good for login pages. 

3. BONUS An HTTP cookie is a piece of (small) data sent from a website and is stored in the user's web browser while the use is browsing. Cookies are the reason why you get annoying ads on Facebook, and such, prompting you to buy things from websites that you have viewed in the past. When an HTTP request is received, a server can send a set-cookie header with the response. Then the cookie value is sent along with every request made to the same server in the form of a Cookie HTTP header. 