1. Linux never assumes that the user incompetent. It assumes that the user knows what he/she is doing, and allows you to do anything you tell it to. Basically Linux gives the user a LOT of power. Linux treats everyone equally and allows everyone the same amount of freedom. What makes Linux different than other operating systems is this amount of freedom/power that the user has. Other operating systems only allow users to do what they think the user should be doing. Basically other operating systems are a lot "safer" which in turn means they are limiting. Linux does not handhold, it assumes the user knows what they are doing, and allows you to execute a command without double checking to make sure you really want to execute it. The terminal is easily opened multiple ways. 

2. A VPS is a type of web hosting server where hosting is done by taking a main physical server and breaking it up into virtual servers. It is essentially a virtual copy of an operating system, allowing customers to manipulate the operating system to fit their needs. It gives them the freedom to install pretty much any software that will run on that OS. Some benefits of VPS' are the fact that each virtual server standsalone, so there is no direct effect of one server on another server. The performance of VPS' are higher than shared servers. Security is another advantage, since there are individual servers, each website gets it's own operating system making it hard for another server to breach security. 

3. BONUS Running programs as the root user on Linux is a bad idea because you can modify your entire system without meaning to. (i.e. if you have a bug in an app that tries to delete all files from your system, if you were logged into root, EVERYTHING would be deleted from your hard drive). It's typically best to always run programs at the user-level and leave only administrative tasks to the root user, only when needed. When you are logged in at the user-level you can only write to your home folder. 